Project Overview - ITHAKA

Project Overview

Portico, ITHAKA is in the process of archiving large amount of content of academic community. Portico (a digital preservation service by ITHAKA), ITHAKA requires a service that can assist in the ingesting and normalization of large amounts of data from a number of information providers’ source content formats (XML/Excel) into the Portico’s format (a modified version of the NLM DTD).

Current Business Objective
The objective of this engagement is to support ITHAKA’s Portico preservation service by enabling efficient ingest, analysis, and normalization of large volumes of scholarly content from multiple publishers. The work focuses on converting source files such as XML and Excel into Portico’s standardized archival format, helping ensure long-term usability, consistency, and preservation readiness of e-journal content.

Nature of Ongoing Work
Regular Streams: Analysis of new publisher streams, design and maintenance of submission profiles, and updates to XSLT-based transformations used by Workbench to process incoming files.

Activities Involved:

Initial ‘Submission Profile’ creation,

‘Mapping Document’ in case required,

Conversion scripts,

Documentations (TOD, Quick Tips) 

Issue Recording in JIRA.

Maintenance Stream: Periodic Maintenance of existing publisher streams to resolve ingest issues and align processing rules with source-content changes.
Activities Involved:

Update of ‘Submission Profile’,

Update in Conversion Scripts (Problem Analysis and finding RCA)

Quick Tips & JIRA updates.

Project Scope
Portico uses “Workbench” (an in-house tool) that operates with customized XML configuration files, called ‘Submission Profiles’, which contain the rules for instructing “Workbench” on how to manage and process the different files that are supplied within each information provider’s file delivery. Within this, customized XSLT scripts are used to perform the transformation to the Portico standardized format. The overall scope of work for Portico includes:

The analysis, design and technical deliverables that will allow Portico to process the new information source (streams) via the Workbench tool. The work will also cover De-layering – the decompression (unzipping) of compressed (zip) input files and splitting issue level XML files to multiple article level XML files.

Maintenance of approx. 70-80 streams(publishers) that would be performed 2 to 3 times a year. Maintenance will require taking the batches that are in “Problem” state in ingest and making modifications to the transforms and profile. 